docs/Example_Configs.md, before:

This document contains guidelines for contributing an example Klipper
configuration to the Klipper github repository (located in the [config
directory](../config/)).

Note that the [Klipper Community Discourse
server](https://community.klipper3d.org) is also a useful resource for
finding and sharing config files.

# Guidelines

1. Select the appropriate config filename prefix.
   1. The `printer` prefix is used for stock printers sold by a
      mainstream manufacturer.
   2. The `generic` prefix is used for a 3d printer board that may be
      used in many different types of printers.
   3. The `kit` prefix is for 3d printers that are assembled according
      to a widely used specification. These "kit" printers are
      generally distinct from normal "printers" in that they are not
      sold by a manufacturer.
   4. The `sample` prefix is used for config "snippets" that one may
      copy-and-paste into the main config file.
   5. The `example` prefix is used to describe printer kinematics.
      This type of config is typically only added along with code for
      a new type of printer kinematics.
2. Use the appropriate filename suffix. The `printer` config files
   must end in a year followed by `.cfg` (eg, `-2019.cfg`). In this
   case, the year is an approximate year the given printer was
   sold. All example configuration files must end in `.cfg`.
3. Klipper must be able to start `printer`, `generic`, and `kit`
   example config file without error. These config files should be
   added to the
   [test/klippy/printers.test](../test/klippy/printers.test)
   regression test case. Add new config files to that test case in the
   appropriate section and in alphabetical order within that section.
4. The example configuration should be for the "stock" configuration
   of the printer. (There are too many "customized" configurations to
   track in the main Klipper repository.) Similarly, we only add
   example config files for printers, kits, and boards that have
   mainstream popularity (eg, there should be at least a 100 of them
   in active use). Consider using the [Klipper Community Discourse
   server](https://community.klipper3d.org) for other configs.
5. Only specify those devices present on the given printer or board.
   Do not specify settings specific to your particular setup.
   1. For `generic` config files, only those devices on the mainboard
      should be described. For example, it would not make sense to add
      a display config section to a "generic" config as there is no
      way to know if the board will be attached to that type of
      display. If the board has a specific hardware port to facilitate
      an optional peripheral (eg, a bltouch port) then one can add a
      "commented out" config section for the given device.
   2. Do not specify `pressure_advance` in an example config, as that
      value is specific to the filament, not the printer hardware.
      Similarly, do not specify `max_extrude_only_velocity` nor
      `max_extrude_only_accel` settings.
   3. Do not specify a config section containing a host path or host
      hardware. For example, do not specify `[virtual_sdcard]` nor
      `[temperature_host]` config sections.
   4. Only define macros that utilize functionality specific to the
      given printer or to define g-codes that are commonly emitted by
      slicers configured for the given printer.
6. Where possible, it is best to use the same wording, phrasing,
   indentation, and section ordering as the existing config files.
   1. The top of each config file should list the type of
      micro-controller the user should select during "make
      menuconfig". It should also have a reference to
      "docs/Config_Reference.md".
   2. Do not copy the field documentation into the example config
      files. (Doing so creates a maintenance burden as an update to
      the documentation would then require changing it in many
      places.)
   3. Example config files should not contain a "SAVE_CONFIG" section.
      If necessary, copy the relevant fields from the SAVE_CONFIG
      section to the appropriate section in the main config area.
   4. Use `field: value` syntax instead of `field=value`.
   5. When adding an extruder `rotation_distance` it is preferable to
      specify a `gear_ratio` if the extruder has a gearing mechanism.
      We expect the rotation_distance in the example configs to
      correlate with the circumference of the hobbed gear in the
      extruder - it is normally in the range of 20 to 35mm. When
      specifying a `gear_ratio` it is preferable to specify the actual
      gears on the mechanism (eg, prefer `gear_ratio: 80:20` over
      `gear_ratio: 4:1`).
   6. Avoid defining field values that are set to their default
      value. For example, one should not specify `min_extrude_temp:
      170` as that is already the default value.
   7. Where possible, lines should not exceed 80 columns.
7. Do not use any deprecated features in the example config file. The
   `step_distance` and `pin_map` parameters are deprecated and should
   not be in any example config file.
8. Do not disable a default safety system in an example config file.
   For example, a config should not specify a custom
   `max_extrude_cross_section`. Do not enable debugging features. For
   example there should not be a `force_move` config section.

Example config files are submitted by creating a github "pull
request". Please also follow the directions in the [contributing
document](CONTRIBUTING.md).

Commit message:

docs: Note that attribution/history should be avoiding in Example_Configs.md
Signed-off-by: Kevin O'Connor <kevin@koconnor.net>

docs/Example_Configs.md, after:

This document contains guidelines for contributing an example Klipper
configuration to the Klipper github repository (located in the [config
directory](../config/)).

Note that the [Klipper Community Discourse
server](https://community.klipper3d.org) is also a useful resource for
finding and sharing config files.

# Guidelines

1. Select the appropriate config filename prefix.
   1. The `printer` prefix is used for stock printers sold by a
      mainstream manufacturer.
   2. The `generic` prefix is used for a 3d printer board that may be
      used in many different types of printers.
   3. The `kit` prefix is for 3d printers that are assembled according
      to a widely used specification. These "kit" printers are
      generally distinct from normal "printers" in that they are not
      sold by a manufacturer.
   4. The `sample` prefix is used for config "snippets" that one may
      copy-and-paste into the main config file.
   5. The `example` prefix is used to describe printer kinematics.
      This type of config is typically only added along with code for
      a new type of printer kinematics.
2. Use the appropriate filename suffix. The `printer` config files
   must end in a year followed by `.cfg` (eg, `-2019.cfg`). In this
   case, the year is an approximate year the given printer was
   sold. All example configuration files must end in `.cfg`.
3. Klipper must be able to start `printer`, `generic`, and `kit`
   example config file without error. These config files should be
   added to the
   [test/klippy/printers.test](../test/klippy/printers.test)
   regression test case. Add new config files to that test case in the
   appropriate section and in alphabetical order within that section.
4. The example configuration should be for the "stock" configuration
   of the printer. (There are too many "customized" configurations to
   track in the main Klipper repository.) Similarly, we only add
   example config files for printers, kits, and boards that have
   mainstream popularity (eg, there should be at least a 100 of them
   in active use). Consider using the [Klipper Community Discourse
   server](https://community.klipper3d.org) for other configs.
5. Only specify those devices present on the given printer or board.
   Do not specify settings specific to your particular setup.
   1. For `generic` config files, only those devices on the mainboard
      should be described. For example, it would not make sense to add
      a display config section to a "generic" config as there is no
      way to know if the board will be attached to that type of
      display. If the board has a specific hardware port to facilitate
      an optional peripheral (eg, a bltouch port) then one can add a
      "commented out" config section for the given device.
   2. Do not specify `pressure_advance` in an example config, as that
      value is specific to the filament, not the printer hardware.
      Similarly, do not specify `max_extrude_only_velocity` nor
      `max_extrude_only_accel` settings.
   3. Do not specify a config section containing a host path or host
      hardware. For example, do not specify `[virtual_sdcard]` nor
      `[temperature_host]` config sections.
   4. Only define macros that utilize functionality specific to the
      given printer or to define g-codes that are commonly emitted by
      slicers configured for the given printer.
6. Where possible, it is best to use the same wording, phrasing,
   indentation, and section ordering as the existing config files.
   1. The top of each config file should list the type of
      micro-controller the user should select during "make
      menuconfig". It should also have a reference to
      "docs/Config_Reference.md".
   2. Do not copy the field documentation into the example config
      files. (Doing so creates a maintenance burden as an update to
      the documentation would then require changing it in many
      places.)
   3. Example config files should not contain a "SAVE_CONFIG" section.
      If necessary, copy the relevant fields from the SAVE_CONFIG
      section to the appropriate section in the main config area.
   4. Use `field: value` syntax instead of `field=value`.
   5. When adding an extruder `rotation_distance` it is preferable to
      specify a `gear_ratio` if the extruder has a gearing mechanism.
      We expect the rotation_distance in the example configs to
      correlate with the circumference of the hobbed gear in the
      extruder - it is normally in the range of 20 to 35mm. When
      specifying a `gear_ratio` it is preferable to specify the actual
      gears on the mechanism (eg, prefer `gear_ratio: 80:20` over
      `gear_ratio: 4:1`).
   6. Avoid defining field values that are set to their default
      value. For example, one should not specify `min_extrude_temp:
      170` as that is already the default value.
   7. Where possible, lines should not exceed 80 columns.
   8. Avoid adding attribution or revision messages to the config
      files. (For example, avoid adding lines like "this file was
      created by ...".) Place attribution and change history in the
      git commit message.
7. Do not use any deprecated features in the example config file. The
   `step_distance` and `pin_map` parameters are deprecated and should
   not be in any example config file.
8. Do not disable a default safety system in an example config file.
   For example, a config should not specify a custom
   `max_extrude_cross_section`. Do not enable debugging features. For
   example there should not be a `force_move` config section.

Example config files are submitted by creating a github "pull
request". Please also follow the directions in the [contributing
document](CONTRIBUTING.md).
