docs/Overview.md, before:

Welcome to the Klipper documentation. If new to Klipper, start with
the [features](Features.md) and [installation](Installation.md)
documents.

# Overview information

- [Features](Features.md): A high-level list of features in Klipper.
- [FAQ](FAQ.md): Frequently asked questions.
- [Releases](Releases.md): The history of Klipper releases.
- [Config changes](Config_Changes.md): Recent software changes that
may require users to update their printer config file.
- [Contact](Contact.md): Information on bug reporting and general
communication with the Klipper developers.

# Configuration and Tuning Guides

- [Installation](Installation.md): Guide to installing Klipper.
  - [config/example.cfg](https://github.com/KevinOConnor/klipper/tree/master/config/example.cfg)
    a reference for the config file.
- [Config checks](Config_checks.md): Verify basic pin settings in the
  config file.
- [Bed level](Bed_Level.md): Information on "bed leveling" in Klipper.
  - [Delta calibrate](Delta_Calibrate.md): Calibration of delta
    kinematics.
  - [Probe calibrate](Probe_Calibrate.md): Calibration of automatic Z
    probes.
  - [BL-Touch](BLTouch.md): Configure a "BL-Touch" Z probe.
  - [Manual level](Manual_Level.md): Calibration of Z endstops (and
    similar).
  - [Endstop phase](Endstop_Phase.md): Stepper assisted Z endstop
    positioning.
- [Resonance compensation](Resonance_Compensation.md): A tool to
  reduce ringing in prints.
- [Pressure advance](Pressure_Advance.md): Calibrate extruder
  pressure.
- [Slicers](Slicers.md): Configure "slicer" software for Klipper.
- [Command Templates](Command_Templates.md): G-Code macros and
  conditional evaluation.
- [Sensorless homing](Sensorless_Homing.md): Configuring tmc2130
  sensorless homing.
- [Skew correction](skew_correction.md): Adjustments for axes not
  perfectly square.
- [G-Codes](G-Codes.md): Information on commands supported by Klipper.

# Developer Documentation

- [Code overview](Code_Overview.md): Developers should read this
  first.
- [Kinematics](Kinematics.md): Technical details on how Klipper
  implements motion.
- [Protocol](Protocol.md): Information on the low-level messaging
  protocol between host and micro-controller.
- [MCU commands](MCU_Commands.md): A description of low-level commands
  implemented in the micro-controller software.
- [Debugging](Debugging.md): Information on how to test and debug
  Klipper.
- [Benchmarks](Benchmarks.md): Information on the Klipper benchmark
  method.
- [Contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md): Information on how to submit
  improvements to Klipper.
- [Packaging](Packaging.md): Information on building OS packages.

# Device Specific Documents

- [Raspberry Pi as Micro-controller](RPi_microcontroller.md): Details
  for controlling devices wired to the GPIO pins of a Raspberry Pi.
- [Beaglebone](beaglebone.md): Details for running Klipper on the
  Beaglebone PRU.
- [Bootloaders](Bootloaders.md): Developer information on
  micro-controller flashing.
- [stm32f0](stm32f0_CAN.md): Information on the STM32F0 micro-controller
  port.
- [TSL1401CL filament width sensor](TSL1401CL_Filament_Width_Sensor.md)
- [Hall filament width sensor](HallFilamentWidthSensor.md)

Commit message:

docs: Add Measuring_Resonances.md to Overview.md
Signed-off-by: Kevin O'Connor <kevin@koconnor.net>

docs/Overview.md, after:

Welcome to the Klipper documentation. If new to Klipper, start with
the [features](Features.md) and [installation](Installation.md)
documents.

# Overview information

- [Features](Features.md): A high-level list of features in Klipper.
- [FAQ](FAQ.md): Frequently asked questions.
- [Releases](Releases.md): The history of Klipper releases.
- [Config changes](Config_Changes.md): Recent software changes that
may require users to update their printer config file.
- [Contact](Contact.md): Information on bug reporting and general
communication with the Klipper developers.

# Configuration and Tuning Guides

- [Installation](Installation.md): Guide to installing Klipper.
  - [config/example.cfg](https://github.com/KevinOConnor/klipper/tree/master/config/example.cfg)
    a reference for the config file.
- [Config checks](Config_checks.md): Verify basic pin settings in the
  config file.
- [Bed level](Bed_Level.md): Information on "bed leveling" in Klipper.
  - [Delta calibrate](Delta_Calibrate.md): Calibration of delta
    kinematics.
  - [Probe calibrate](Probe_Calibrate.md): Calibration of automatic Z
    probes.
  - [BL-Touch](BLTouch.md): Configure a "BL-Touch" Z probe.
  - [Manual level](Manual_Level.md): Calibration of Z endstops (and
    similar).
  - [Endstop phase](Endstop_Phase.md): Stepper assisted Z endstop
    positioning.
- [Resonance compensation](Resonance_Compensation.md): A tool to
  reduce ringing in prints.
  - [Measuring resonances](Measuring_Resonances.md): Information on
    using adxl345 accelerometer hardware to measure resonance.
- [Pressure advance](Pressure_Advance.md): Calibrate extruder
  pressure.
- [Slicers](Slicers.md): Configure "slicer" software for Klipper.
- [Command Templates](Command_Templates.md): G-Code macros and
  conditional evaluation.
- [Sensorless homing](Sensorless_Homing.md): Configuring tmc2130
  sensorless homing.
- [Skew correction](skew_correction.md): Adjustments for axes not
  perfectly square.
- [G-Codes](G-Codes.md): Information on commands supported by Klipper.

# Developer Documentation

- [Code overview](Code_Overview.md): Developers should read this
  first.
- [Kinematics](Kinematics.md): Technical details on how Klipper
  implements motion.
- [Protocol](Protocol.md): Information on the low-level messaging
  protocol between host and micro-controller.
- [MCU commands](MCU_Commands.md): A description of low-level commands
  implemented in the micro-controller software.
- [Debugging](Debugging.md): Information on how to test and debug
  Klipper.
- [Benchmarks](Benchmarks.md): Information on the Klipper benchmark
  method.
- [Contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md): Information on how to submit
  improvements to Klipper.
- [Packaging](Packaging.md): Information on building OS packages.

# Device Specific Documents

- [Raspberry Pi as Micro-controller](RPi_microcontroller.md): Details
  for controlling devices wired to the GPIO pins of a Raspberry Pi.
- [Beaglebone](beaglebone.md): Details for running Klipper on the
  Beaglebone PRU.
- [Bootloaders](Bootloaders.md): Developer information on
  micro-controller flashing.
- [stm32f0](stm32f0_CAN.md): Information on the STM32F0 micro-controller
  port.
- [TSL1401CL filament width sensor](TSL1401CL_Filament_Width_Sensor.md)
- [Hall filament width sensor](HallFilamentWidthSensor.md)
